[HACDOCS-1016] Added ArgoCD plugin content (#372)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: artifacts/rhdh-plugins-reference/argocd/argocd-plugin-readme.adoc

= Enabling and configuring Argo CD plugin

You can use the Argo CD plugin to visualize the Continuous Delivery (CD) workflows in OpenShift GitOps. This plugin provides a visual overview of the application’s status, deployment details, commit message, author of the commit, container image promoted to environment and deployment history.

== For Administrators

=== Enabling Argo CD plugin

.Prerequisites

> * Add Argo CD instance information to your `app.config.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add Argo CD instance information to your `app.config.yaml` configmap:
```

> * AAdd Argo CD instance information to your `app.config.yaml` configmap:

Reviewer 2: There is a typo `AAdd`

+
[source,typescript]
----
argocd:
  appLocatorMethods:
    - type: 'config'
      instances:
        - name: argoInstance1
          url: https://argoInstance1.com
          username: ${ARGOCD_USERNAME}
          password: ${ARGOCD_PASSWORD}
        - name: argoInstance2
          url: https://argoInstance2.com
          username: ${ARGOCD_USERNAME}
          password: ${ARGOCD_PASSWORD}
----

* Add the following annotation to the entity’s `catalog-info.yaml` file to identify the Argo CD applications.

+
[source,yaml]
----
annotations:
  ...
  # The label that Argo CD uses to fetch all the applications. The format to be used is label.key=label.value. For example, rht-gitops.com/janus-argocd=quarkus-app.

  argocd/app-selector: '${ARGOCD_LABEL_SELECTOR}' 
----

* (Optional) Add the following annotation to the entity’s `catalog-info.yaml` file to switch between Argo CD instances:

+
[source,yaml]
----
 annotations:
   ...

>     # The Argo CD instance name used in `app.config.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: Update config file name `app.config.yaml` to `app-config.yaml`

    argocd/instance-name: '${ARGOCD_INSTANCE}' 
----

+
[NOTE]
====

> If you do not set this annotation, the Argo CD plugin defaults to the first Argo CD instance configured in `app.config.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: Update config file name app.config.yaml to app-config.yaml

====

> .Procedures

Reviewer 3: Procedure

.Procedure

. Add the following to your dynamic-plugins ConfigMap to enable the Argo CD plugin.
+
[source,yaml]
----
global:
  dynamic:
    includes:
      - dynamic-plugins.default.yaml
    plugins:
      - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/roadiehq-backstage-plugin-argo-cd-backend-dynamic
        disabled: false
      - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/janus-idp-backstage-plugin-argocd
        disabled: false
----

== For Users

.Prerequisites

* You have enabled the Argo CD plugin in {product} {product-very-short}.

.Procedures

> . On the {product-very-short} platform, navigate to the *Catalog* and select an appropriate component.

Reviewer 3: Click the **Catalog** tab and select the component that you want to use.

Author: > Click the Catalog tab and select the component that you want to use.
Updated but raised a question below. Click vs Select. Kept select as for now

> . Select *CD* tab to view insights into deployments managed by Argo CD. 

Reviewer 3: Click the **CD** tab

Author: @linfraze Thank you for your suggestion. I decided to use "Select" based on this:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/920f94c6-8748-4d0e-a304-9ee07b7dec77)

Let me know if you disagree or have some other references.
Thanks again.

Author: Based on this discussion - https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C04P5S34GP2/p1722440235254279
...going with Select.

Reviewer 3: @gtrivedi88 that's fine. I appreciate you starting the discussion in the CCS channel. We all learn a lot that way.

+
image::rhdh-plugins-reference/argocd.png[CD tab Argo CD]

. For deployment details:

+

> * Select an appropriate card. The system displays the deployment details (for example, commit history, author name, and deployment history) in a sidebar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select an appropriate card. The system displays the deployment details (for example, commit message, author name, and deployment history) in a sidebar.
```

+
image::rhdh-plugins-reference/sidebar.png[Sidebar]

+ 

> * Select the link icon (image:rhdh-plugins-reference/link.svg[width=13px, height=13px, align=center]) to open the deployment details in Argo CD.

Reviewer 3: Remove For deployment details

Format this as step 3: Optional: Click the [object] to view its deployment details, for example, commit message, author, name, and deployment history.
Format this is as a sub-step to step 3: Optional: Click the link icon to open the deployment details in Argo CD.

Use _click_ and _select_ in accordance with IBM stlye guideance throughout the doc

Author: > Remove For deployment details
Updated

> Format this as step 3: Optional: Click the [object] to view its deployment details, for example, commit message, author, name, and deployment history.
> Format this is as a sub-step to step 3: Optional: Click the link icon to open the deployment details in Argo CD.

Updated

> Use click and select in accordance with IBM stlye guideance throughout the doc
Raised question above

> . Select the *Overview* tab and navigate to the Deployment summary section to review the summary of your application's deployment across namespaces. Additionally, select an appropriate Argo CD app to open the deployment details in Argo CD, or select a commit from the Revision column to review the changes in GitLab or GitHub.

Reviewer 3: Click the **Overview** tab

If Deployment summary is a heading on the UI, then bold it. Same for Revision.

Author: Thank you!
Not sure if I understand this. Deployment summary is a section name that the system displays on the Overview tab. Do we need to bold section names? ..same for column names, like Revision.

Please suggest.

Author: Based on this discussion - https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C04P5S34GP2/p1722440235254279
...going with Select.

If you feel this is not right, we can discuss more :)

Reviewer 3: @gtrivedi88 I was basing the recommendation to bold the UI elements on [this guidance](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-interface-elements), but use your judgement

+
image::rhdh-plugins-reference/deployment_summary.png[Deployment summary]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

> * For more information on dynamic plugins, refer link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html/configuring_plugins_in_red_hat_developer_hub/rhdh-installing-dynamic-plugins[Dynamic plugin installation].

Reviewer 3: Change _refer_ to _see_ to align with the rest of the RHDH docs. It also looks like "to" is missing after "refer" for _refer to_

> = Installation and Configuration of ArgoCD

Reviewer: Can we use the name to Argo CD with a space throughout this doc?  Even in backstage-plugins repo, there is a PR to update the naming with a space. 

```suggestion
= Installation and Configuration of Argo CD plugin
```

----
<1> The label that is available in your application. ArgoCD enables the Applications with this label. For example, rht-gitops.com/janus-argocd=quarkus-app>.

.. (Optional) To switch between ArgoCD instances add the following annotations to the entity's `catalog-info.yaml` file:

+
[source,yaml]
----
 annotations:
   ...
    argocd/instance-name: '${ARGOCD_INSTANCE}' <2>
----
<2> The ArgoCD instance name.

+
[NOTE]
====
If you do not set these annotations, the plugin defaults to the first ArgoCD instance configured in `app.config.yaml`.
====

== For Users

.Prerequisites

* Use the following configuration to install the ArgoCD plugin into Red Hat Developer Hub using Helm:

+
[source,yaml]
----
global:
  dynamic:
    includes:
      - dynamic-plugins.default.yaml
    plugins:
      - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/roadiehq-backstage-plugin-argo-cd-backend-dynamic
        disabled: false
----

.Procedures

. On the RHDH platform, navigate to the *Catalog* and select an appropriate component that you have moved to production.

. Select *CD* tab to view insights into deployments managed by ArgoCD plugin. 

+
image::rhdh-plugins-reference/argocd.png[CD tab ArgoCD]

[NOTE]
====

> For additional deployment details, select an appropriate card or select the link icon (image:rhdh-plugins-reference/link.svg[width=12px, height=12px, align=center]) to open the deployment details in *argo*.

Reviewer: Can we break it into two points, bcoz they are different operations.
```suggestion
1. For additional deployment details, click on a card to open the sidebar.
2. Click on the link icon (image:rhdh-plugins-reference/link.svg[width=12px, height=12px, align=center]) to open the deployment details in *Argo CD*.
```

==== 

> . (Optional) Alternatively, select *Overview* tab, and then from Deployment summary section, select an appropriate application to open the deployment details in *argo*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 *Overview* tab contains the Deployment summary, select an appropriate application to open it in *Argo CD*.
```

Can we also add the screenshot of the Overview tab here ?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d3563423-dc01-4fe4-8297-1664a1d69357)

= Installation and Configuration of ArgoCD

> You can use the ArgoCD plugin to visualize Continuous Delivery (CD) pipeline runs in OpenShift GitOps. This plugin provides a visual overview of the application’s status, deployment details, author of the pipeline run, commit message, and the container image promoted to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the ArgoCD plugin to visualize the Continuous Delivery (CD) workflows in OpenShift GitOps. This plugin provides a visual overview of the application’s status, deployment details, commit message, author of the commit, container image promoted to environment and deployment history.
```

          <EntitySwitch.Case if={e => Boolean(isArgocdConfigured(e))}>
            <Grid item sm={12}>
              <ArgocdDeploymentLifecycle />
            </Grid>
          </EntitySwitch.Case>
        {/* highlight-add-end */}
    </EntitySwitch>
);
----

+
* Enable ArgoCD features by adding the following annotations to the entity's `catalog-info.yaml` file:

+
[source,yaml]
----
annotations:
  ...

  argocd/app-selector: 'rht-gitops.com/janus-argocd=quarkus-app'
----

+
* To switch between ArgoCD instances add the following annotations to the entity's `catalog-info.yaml` file:

+
[source,yaml]
----
 annotations:
   ...
    argocd/instance-name: 'argoInstance2'
----

+
[NOTE]
====
If you do not set these annotations, the plugin defaults to the first ArgoCD instance configured in `app.config.yaml`.
====

== For Users

.Prerequisites

.Procedures

* Use the following configuration to install the ArgoCD plugin into Red Hat Developer Hub or Janus IDP through Helm:

+
[source,yaml]
----
global:
  dynamic:
    includes:
      - dynamic-plugins.default.yaml
    plugins:
      - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/roadiehq-backstage-plugin-argo-cd-backend-dynamic
        disabled: false

>         pluginConfig:
>           argocd:
>             username: "${ARGOCD_USERNAME}"
>             password: "${ARGOCD_PASSWORD}"
>             appLocatorMethods:
>               - type: 'config'
>                 instances:
>                   - name: argoInstance1
>                     url: "${ARGOCD_INSTANCE1_URL}"
>                     token: "${ARGOCD_AUTH_TOKEN}"

Reviewer: Safe to remove this, it is not required.
```suggestion
```

      - package: ./dynamic-plugins/dist/janus-idp-backstage-plugin-argocd
        disabled: false

>         pluginConfig:
>           dynamicPlugins:
>             frontend:
>               janus-idp.backstage-plugin-argocd:
>                 mountPoints:
>                   - mountPoint: entity.page.overview/cards
>                     importName: ArgocdDeploymentSummary
>                     config:
>                       layout:
>                         gridColumnEnd:
>                           lg: "span 8"
>                           xs: "span 12"
>                       if:
>                         allOf:
>                           - isArgocdAvailable
>                   - mountPoint: entity.page.cd/cards
>                     importName: ArgocdDeploymentLifecycle
>                     config:
>                       layout:
>                         gridColumn: '1 / -1'
>                       if:
>                         allOf:
>                           - isArgocdConfigured

Reviewer: we can remove this.
```suggestion
```

----

> === Loading the Plugin in Backstage Showcase Application

Reviewer: Can we add this link to the backstage-showcase repo somewhere here https://github.com/janus-idp/backstage-showcase ?

Reviewer: I was thinking more about this section, this section is about running the backstage-showcase repo locally by some developers, I dont think we need this section here in RHDH at all, we can remove this section.

> === Loading the Plugin in Backstage Showcase Application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
